---
title:  "Machine Learning"
subtitle: "The Future !!"
author: "Ashrya"
avatar: "img/ashrya.png"
image: "img/a.jpg"
date:   24-07-2019 11:11:11 PM
---

# Use of Machine Learning for detecting Stress

## Background

<p>In today’s word one of the major leading factors to health problem is Stress. 
Stress can be defined as a physical response to the excessive amount of pressure faced by an individual. 
Stress could be induced due to any psychological or social scenario.</p>

#### Depression on Social Media

Social media platforms are becoming an integral part of people’s life. 
They reflect the user’s personal life. 
People like to share happiness, joy, and sadness on social media. 
These platforms are used for researchers to identify the causes of depression and detect it.

#### Data Collection

Before starting any Machine Learning Project, one needs to gather the dataset. We can ue twitter for this. We can use the 
tool at <https://github.com/twintproject/twint> to gather tweets information.

#### What next ?

Sentiment analysis can be performed to classify the tweets, posts, etc as depressive or normal

#### What else can we do ?

We can also use Physiological Parameters for effective detection of stress.
The basic parameters on which stress can be identified are heart rate, galvanic skin response,body temperature, blood pressure, which provides detailed information of the state of mind of a person. 
These parameters varying from person to person on the basis of certain things such as their body condition, age and gender.

Refer these research papers for detection of stress using Physiological Parameters :
- M. Chauhan et al., "Effective Stress Detection using Physiological Parameters", 2017 International Conference on Innovations in Information Embedded and Communication Systems (ICIIECS), pp. 1-6, 2017.
- John Paul D. Serrano, Jamie Mitchelle A. Soltez, Rodney Karlo C. Pascual, John Christopher D. Castillo, Jumelyn L. Torres, Febus Reidj G. Cruz, "Portable Stress Level Detector based on Galvanic Skin Response Heart Rate and Body Temperature", Humanoid Nanotechnology Information TechnologyCommunication and Control Environment and Management (HNICEM) 2018 IEEE 10th International Conference on, pp. 1-5, 2018.

#### What will we get ?

This will help in early detection of stress. The content that is being made available to the person through
youtube, google news, spotify playlist etc can be customised according to this.